# Exam project Digital Media

    This Repository contains:
- a READ ME file
- gif file (ochi.gif)
- source code (ASCII_gif_maker.py)
____________________________________
This function of this code is to transform gif. files into ASCII animations. The purpose of this project was to create something that would be simple to use and would generate some form of engaging and entertaining artwork. In this scientific reflection I aim to explain my thought process when thinking of, my initial ideas, why certain changes were made and how I came to the project that I transferred to code in the end. Additionally I will also delve in to my code and explain it’s functionalities, limitations and possible ways to improve it.
 The idea for this project came to me during our final brainstorming class of the semester. I found the function of our picture_to_ASCII code quite fun and thought that it could be a fun challenge to work with it. At first I experimented a bit during the session with various “image to ASCII” codes to see it’s possibilities and limitations in order to gain some inspiration.
During my first round of research, I stumbled upon a Python package called “ASCII Magic”. It’s purpose was to convert images to ASCII code for terminals and HTML. In terms of use, the package was fairly straightforward and easy to use and returned very good results too. However, while I found this package intriguing and fun to use, I fairly quickly realized that it was not realistic for me to implement it as my ideas for it were too ambitious and I lacked skill to fully realize them at that time.
After that I stared considering creating a gif convertor that would convert gif files into ASCII animations. My initial idea on how to transfer this idea into code was to write a code that would first extract individual frames of a given gif, transform them into ASCII Art, using our code from class or ASCII MAgic, and lastly piece them together again and animate them. However once again while trying to find code that I could gain inspiration from and learn about the functions necessary for this project I realized that the majority of the available code online was used for video files, instead of gif files. Although some of that code could have been applicable to my project, my knowledge and understanding of coding was not enough to be able to manipulate and change them according to my needs. Due to this reason I decided to change my approach. Instead of trying to piece these individual pieces of code and functions together, I decided to find a code that would already have the necessary functions for my project and combine it with some elements that were used in class.
The first code I considered using in some shape or form for this project was “image_to_ascii” program shared on Github by the user “yattsu”. His code yielded the best results as the animations always turned out the most recognizable and closest to the original gif. However, once I started spend some time reviewing and experimenting with the code on my own, I pretty quickly learned that, while I could partially understand it, it was unfortunately still too complex for me to understand enough to work with due to my lack of skill and knowledge. Therefore, I had decided that I would have to settle for a simpler version of such code and possibly after achieving that I could perhaps start considering, improving it to a level similar to yattsu’s.
The code that I ultimately decided to use was the “Python-Gif-Ascii-Animator” published by the Github user “DenizYunus”. The reason why I decided to use this code was simply it was finally a code I could roughly understand a therefore also work with. Even though the animations produced by this code are unfortunately nowhere near as accurate as the ones from yattsu.

    Introduction to the code
DenizYunus’ code takes a gif designated by the user, transforms it into an ASCII animation that is transferred into our terminal and additionally plays music, along the animation. While I found their idea unique and fun, I decided to omit the music aspect and use only the animation that in my version would be projected in a separate window, similarly to how we did in class with our “image_to_ascii_art” code, instead of directly to the terminal. I decided for this change mainly due to aesthetic reasons.

    Description of code
This code I utilizes functions of the Pillow (PIL) and Pygame libraries. 
Thanks to PIL’s function “Image.open” I store my chosen gif in the variable “im”. I then use this variable to set the height and width of the Pygame window to which the animation will then be transferred. In the 9th line we create the Pygame object clock that will alter on allow us to set the speed of the animation. Next, we choose the number of iterations the final animation will go through before the program closes itself. Then the intensity multiplier and lastly aspects such as our font size, color and background color used for our ASCII animation.
The first definition extracts the individual frames from the gif. In this definition the list frames is initialized, this is where the extracted frames will be stored. Then a loop is created which will make the code repeat itself until all frames have been extracted and it comes to an “EOFError” that will   stop the code. 
The next function converts images into ASCII art. Lines 36 and 37 determine the font used for the characters and then calculates how many characters will be able to fit into each image. Then the lines 39 to 51 determine the “weight” of each ASCII character that will be used in the final image, this is done in order to see how light or dark they should be. Lines 54, 55 then resize the image so it fits well with the desired amount of ASCII images and changes it to greyscale. The last part of this definition than transforms each image into ASCII art, by finding the closest matching character to a given shade of gray of each pixel. Therefore, creating reconstruction of the given image.
The next definition “frames_to_ascii” turns the images into ASCII art. It goes through each frame that was saved in the “frames” library, which we initialized in the “extract_gif_frames” definition and uses the “image_to_ascii” definition from before to create the ASCII image. These images are then appended to the library “ascii_frames”.

The “draw_ascii_image” takes the created ASCII images and transfers them into the Pygame surface. It firstly fills the surface with our chosen background color, and places the ASCII image over it. This process then gets repeated which gives us the “illusion” of animation.
The last used definition is the “main” definition, which brings all the previous parts together and opens the Pygame window and plays the gif. Lines 90 to 94 open our Pygame window, set its size, create a surface within it to display our art, set the window’s display caption and set the font which will be used. The next two lines then extract all the frames from the given gif and transform them into a list of ASCII Images which are stored in the library “ascii_frames”. The “while” loop then runs the animation until it reaches the number of iterations we have set or until we close the window ourselves. Here we can also set the speed of our animation with the “clock” object we created at the beginning and set the FPS of the animation.
The code is simply run by running the code in the terminal.

    Future improvements
While I am satisfied with this current version of the code I also see room for improvement. Like I mentioned earlier I would like to improve the accuracy and ability to capture more detail of the images, similarly to how the user yattsu has achieved in his code. Another aspect I would like to add in the future is the function to save these animations, rather than have to generate them anew each time.

    Some sources I have used:
https://github.com/tpoff/Python-Gif-Ascii-Animator/blob/master/Gif_Ascii_Animator.py
https://medium.com/thedevproject/quick-and-easy-gif-creation-and-optimization-with-python-5223814861e2
https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/handbook/image-file-formats.html
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-pil-image-convert-method/
https://blog.finxter.com/how-to-convert-an-image-from-rgb-to-grayscale-in-python/
 
